Alright, now let's get into
actually testing our components that are on the page
and we're going to start with this item component
that we have here
because this item component doesn't actually have
any queries or mutations in it.
It's actually just past in via props
and then we display it.
So we're going to import this component into a test.
We're going to render it on out.
And we're going to check
that all these things are working as planned.
We're going to check that the description is there,
and that the title is there,
and that the image is there,
and that the price is being formatted properly,
and you get the point.
So let's open up test.
And we're going to make a new one
called
item
.js
And then inside of that,
we're going to import that component.
We're going to import
item component
from
and I believe it's up a level
into components
into
item.
There we go.
Then, what we're going to do is make a fake item
that gets passed into that component.
So const fake item
is equal to this.
And we'll say the ID of it is
ABC
123.
Our title is going to be
'A Cool Item.'
And I'm just going to fill out the rest of the fields here.
You can scrub fast forward through this if you like.
Now we're going to go ahead a write our test suite.
So describe
I always like to put the actually component in the describe.
So we'll say item.
And we're going to
test
that it
renders
and displays
properly.
There we go.
Now, how do we actually render out a component
inside of a test?
That's where we get into
using enzymes
shallow rendering.
I'm going to explain what the difference is
between shallow and mounting in just a second
but let's jump to the top here,
and we'll import
shallow
from
enzyme.
And we'll go down here and actually mount it.
Now, I like to call these mounted components a wrapper
because that is the entire component itself.
And then we can actually dive into those
and find all of the spans and divs and images and prices
and whatnot (mumbles).
Const wrapper
I'll call this wrapper in all of my tests.
And we'll shallow mount it,
and we simply just pass it the component we want.
We'll say item
component
and we'll pass it
the actual item
as if we were writing react.
So we'll say fake item,
so you see we're passing it the data that we have here.
And let's go ahead and
console .log
wrapper
It says shallow wrapper length one.
That tells us that there is something there
but it doesn't show us what it is,
so the way we can do that is copy .debug method
on the end of this wrapper.
So we'll run that and that should show us
all of the HTML that would be rendered out
if this component were to be rendered out
into a react application.
That .debug is alongside all of these
if you go to the
shallow wrapper documentation
for shallow rendering.
You'll see that all of these are the methods
that can be called on
any wrapper that you have.
You can do traversal.
You can go up a level, down a level.
You can search inside using .find.
You can use .first to grab the first thing
if there's multiple elements that are found.
You can check
if things equal in node.
You can find children. You get the point.
There's all kinds of jquery like API methods
that are available
for traversing going in and out of your react
component.
Now, let's do a couple of things.
Let's check a few things.
Let's start with this price tag here.
I want to check that this price tag has
fifty dollars shown
inside of it.
So, how do we grab that?
I always like to put them in, these are like sub-wrappers.
I like to put them in their own variables
if I'm going to be using them more than once
so I'll just make a new variable here.
Const
PriceTag
is equal to
wrapper .find
and we're going to search for the price tag.
Let's switch out the console log with the price tag
and you'll see that we get the price tag.
Now, in order to get the actual text out of that
you think you would just use
.text
however that just gives us the element.
Now, this is the difference between shallow rendering
and actually mounting it.
If we go back,
let me just console log the wrapper .debug one more time.
You'll notice that we have all of these components
that are inside of here.
We have this Add to Cart component.
We have the Delete Item component.
We have our Price Tag component.
We have our title component.
These are all components
and they are not actually getting rendered out
to the true HTML
because what shallow rendering just does
is simply just renders the top level component,
which in our case, it's item,
and it won't go any levels deeper.
It's not going to actually render out the Add to Cart
into a true button
because we're going to
separately test that Add to Cart component ourselves,
and we don't need to go into it.
Similarly with Delete Item,
we don't need to render that out itself
because we're going to have a separate test
that's going to test just that button by itself.
Now, that's okay,
but if we try and go into this Price Tag .text,
you'll see that we just get the Price Tag component.
There's a couple ways around that.
We could
do what's called a .dive.
What .dive will do,
there you go, you see it's giving us fifty bucks now.
Dive will shallow render one level deeper.
So if you ever do need to render one level,
and then go, I actually do need to render another level,
I don't want to mount the entire thing.
I don't want to render the entire component
in all of its levels. I just want to do a shallow.
.dive will take you one level deeper.
Another way you can access the text
that is in there is .children.
And .children will give you the actual child
of that price tag.
And in our case its just a text note.
We could write some expects here, real quick,
expect
the price tag
.children
.toBe
fifty dollars
Doesn't look like its working.
(mumbles)
This is the actual text.
Children
.text.
.tap
.text
And it looks like that one is working just fine
so we are expecting it to be fifty bucks.
If this seems a little bit awkward,
it's because it is.
And I think that the snapshot texting
which we are going to be looking at in the next video
will solve a lot of this traversal,
but for now let's keep going with this sort of traversal
and enzyme testing just to show you how it works
in testing all of the different pieces.
That's the price tag.
Let's check, let's do the H three next.
So, we've got this title tag here,
and we want to find the link inside of that
and find the text of that
so let's say
expect
the wrapper
.find
we'll find the title
inside of that, the link,
and we'll call the .text to be
and I'll just write 'hi' inside of there.
I'll see the error.
It says expected to be hi. It gave you a cool item.
And we can just switch that out with a cool item,
or we could just reference the fake item .title directly
and that's probably writing a better test
because then if the fake item ever changes,
we don't ever have to update our test.
So let's do that.
Fake item
.title.
Looking good.
Another thing we can do is test the image.
So, we'll put that in a variable here.
Const image
is equal to wrapper
.find the image
Console log
the image .debug
See what we're working with here. There we go.
We want to test that the source got set
and that the alt got set.
The way we can grab those is by saying
.props
and referencing right off of there.
So let's just see what props gives us.
Props will give us an object
with all of the props that are passed in.
So, source and alt.
Here we can expect
image .props
.source
to be
fake item
.source
or .image
Good.
And then we'll check that the alt text
is equal to the
fake item .title.
Looking good.
Let's console log the wrapper again.
Console log
And by the way,
I'm putting these all in one it block,
but as soon as you start to get
maybe if you have a couple tests
that relate just to images,
what you could do is you could have
a separate it block up here
You see it
renders
the image
properly.
And then that test will just test the image itself
And if anything ever goes awry with the image
then you know,
okay, something is wrong with the image
and not the actual title that we have here.
And the way that we would do that is
by nicely separating them
into their own tests
and we could take
all of this here,
put it in here,
and we would just copy paste the mounting
of this wrapper once more up here.
Maybe let's do that.
Let's say it renders the image properly.
Then then this one,
it renders
the price tag
and title
properly.
Good. So now we have two test suites.
Or sorry, now we have one test suite
with two different tests inside of it.
It's looking good.
A couple other things that you might want to test here
is that the description is showing up
or just the mere existence of these buttons.
You want to make sure that these buttons are showing up
in our specific use case.
So let's say it renders
out the buttons
properly.
And we're not going to test the functionality
of the buttons just yet
because that's going to come in future tests
when we are mimicking clicks
and we're going to test that there's an item in the cart
and you add an item
and you're going to test that there's two items in the cart
but, in our case, let's just go ahead
and mount this wrapper right here.
Then, we will go
and look for the three buttons.
Console log .wrapper .ebug
just to see what we're working with here.
There it is.
We're going to look for the button list.
So const
buttonList
is equal to wrapper.find
.buttonlist and console log.
I don't know why I put a capital on that.
Let's put that down
buttonList
There we go.
I'm going to get rid of these other console logs in here.
Now, we see that we have one item,
but we want to check that there are three items
so we can call .children on there
and you see that we have a length of three,
so that's our first expect.
Expect the buttonList .children
to have
length
three
(Wrong buzzer sound effect) That didn't work.
Renders out the button properly. I spelt children wrong.
That test is passing.
We also want to check that the three buttons are there.
So if we were to
debug that.
Let's take a look at
what buttons we are actually looking for,
so one of them is going to be a link,
one of them is going to be an add to cart,
and one of them is going to be a delete item.
So we want to check
is there some sort of children in here
or .contains.
There is a contains.
Contains all matching elements,
contains any matching elements,
and contains matching element.
So what these do
is you can actually pass it an existing
component
not a selector, but a component, and it will check that
that's in there.
So what I can do here,
is I can import the add to cart, the remove from cart,
and the link component and check that they're in there
or if it's a little bit easier,
you can just do a quick little selector
and check that they are there.
So let's try that.
So we'll expect that the buttonList
.find
will check for a link
and we'll have
to Have
Length
of 1.
And that didn't work.
Well, find, not filter.
There we go.
Another way we could have done that
is we could have used the
.exists method
that comes from enzyme itself
and then we could just say to be true
and that would also work
or we could just use to be
truthy
and in that case we wouldn't even need to have that
because if it's there it would be Truthy
and if its not it would be Falsey.
I kind of like the
exists
to be
true.
Looks like it is working.
We can do that with the rest of them.
So link add to cart
and remove from cart
component.
Didn't find remove from cart.
Is that what it's called? We'll check our item component.
Oh, I just realized I named this item .js.
Let's rename that
to item.test.js
And in here, it's delete item,
not remove from cart.
What are we saying?
There we go. All of those tests are working.
You get the point. You gotta basically render the thing
to the screen and then do some finding and searching
and sort of doing a sanity check
that are these things actually being rendered out
as I expect them to?
Quite honestly, this seems like a lot of diving in.
It also seems pretty brittle
because as soon as you go ahead and change
any of the layout of these things
then your tests will start to break.
So, what we're going to look at
in the next one is something called snapshot testing
which is greatly going to reduce the tests that we write
for our single items.